# Calculator Application - _Midterm Project_

## Introduction

This project includes a versatile calculator application that can execute basic arithmetic operations and store computation history. It was designed with extensibility in mind, and it uses a plugin-based architecture to make it easy to add new capabilities.

## Setup Instructions

### Requirements

- Python 3.8 or newer
- Git (optional, for cloning the repository)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository or download the source code:
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/NidhishVyas/midterm
   ```
2. Navigate to the project directory:
   ```sh
   cd midterm
   ```
3. Activate virtual environment
   ```sh
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```
4. Install required dependencies:
   ```sh
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

### Running the Application

Execute the main script to start the application:

```sh
python main.py
```

## Usage Examples

Upon launching the application, you'll be presented with the Main Menu. Here's how to navigate through its features:

### Main Menu

- To access the calculator, type `1` or `calculator`.
- To manage your calculation history, type `2` or `history`.

### Performing Calculator Operations

##### Addition:

1. From the Main Menu, enter `1` or `calculator`.
2. Choose `1` or `add`.
3. Enter the first number, then the second number. The result will be displayed.

##### Subtraction, Multiplication, Division:

- Follow similar steps as for Addition, but choose the corresponding operation.

### History Management

##### Clearing History:

1. From the Main Menu, enter `2` or `history`.
2. In the History Menu, choose `1` to remove all history entries.

##### Deleting a Specific Entry:

- Choose `2`, then follow the prompt to enter the index of the entry you wish to delete.

#### Viewing History:

- Choose `3` to view all past calculations.

## Architectural Decisions

The application's architecture is modular and plugin-driven, making it easy to integrate and manage calculator functions and history features. This technique promotes scalability while simplifying maintenance tasks.

## Design Patterns

- **Command Pattern**: Used to implement calculator operations and history management instructions, allowing for simple expansion and adjustment of functions.
- **Plugin Pattern**: Offers a dynamic discovery and loading framework for plugins, which supports extensibility by allowing additional calculator operations or history commands to be added without changing the basic application logic.

## Logging Strategy

Logging configuration is handled via the `logging.conf` file, which provides a centralized and customizable approach for managing log messages generated by the application. The log entries will be saved to the `logs/calculator.log` file. This approach is extremely useful for debugging, monitoring program actions, and analyzing usage trends.

## Testing

Tests are written using pytest. Run the following command to execute all tests:

```sh
pytest --pylint --cov
```

## Continuous Integration and Deployment

The `.github/workflows/python-app.yml` file sets up the CI/CD pipeline, automation test and deployment operations. This assures code quality and enables an effortless deployment to production settings.

## Conclusion

The calculator app's architecture is streamlined and modular, allowing for easy scalability and future improvements. This framework provides the smooth incorporation of new features without requiring substantial overhauls, guaranteeing that the program can easily adapt to changing needs. Rigorous testing and logging techniques improve its dependability and ease of maintenance by quickly identifying and resolving possible issues. This emphasis on modularity and quality assurance demonstrates the app's commitment to providing a long-lasting, high-performance platform that satisfies user expectations and enables efficient development.
